Despite dramatic advances in cancer research setting, breast cancer remains a major health problem and represents currently a top biomedical research priority. Worldwide, breast cancer is the most common cancer affecting women, and its incidence and mortality rates are expected to increase significantly the next years. Recently the researchers' interest has been attracted by breast cancer arising in young women. Current evidence suggests that in women aged <45 years, breast cancer is unquestionably the leading cause of cancer-related deaths. This type of cancer seems to be highly heterogeneous and has potentially aggressive and complex biological features. However, management strategies, recommendations and options are not age based and the 'complex' biology of this type of cancer remains uncertain and unexplored. In this review, we summarize the latest scientific information on breast cancer arising in young women highlighting the heterogeneity and the complex nature of this type of cancer.
Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death in the United States and globally with the majority of lung cancer cases attributable to cigarette smoking. Given the high societal and personal cost of a diagnosis of lung cancer including that most cases of lung cancer when diagnosed are found at a late stage, work over the past 40 years has aimed to detect lung cancer earlier when curative treatment is possible. Screening trials using chest radiography and sputum failed to show a reduction in lung cancer mortality however multiple studies using low dose CT have shown the ability to detect lung cancer early and a survival benefit to those screened. This review will discuss the history of lung cancer screening, current recommendations and screening guidelines, and implementation and components of a lung cancer screening program.
Several decades ago, colorectal cancer was infrequently diagnosed. Nowadays, it is the world's fourth most deadly cancer with almost 900 000 deaths annually. Besides an ageing population and dietary habits of high-income countries, unfavourable risk factors such as obesity, lack of physical exercise, and smoking increase the risk of colorectal cancer. Advancements in pathophysiological understanding have increased the array of treatment options for local and advanced disease leading to individual treatment plans. Treatments include endoscopic and surgical local excision, downstaging preoperative radiotherapy and systemic therapy, extensive surgery for locoregional and metastatic disease, local ablative therapies for metastases, and palliative chemotherapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy. Although these new treatment options have doubled overall survival for advanced disease to 3 years, survival is still best for those with non-metastasised disease. As the disease only becomes symptomatic at an advanced stage, worldwide organised screening programmes are being implemented, which aim to increase early detection and reduce morbidity and mortality from colorectal cancer.
The preoperative assessment of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) requires a multimodal approach, including endoscopic evaluation and clinical, radiographic, and biochemical assessment. In addition to providing a diagnosis, histologic review of biopsy specimens imparts valuable information about tumor grade and other important prognostic features that can help determine treatment. A thorough history and physical examination rounds out the initial evaluation and provides the surgeon and other treating physicians with vital additional information for detailed operative planning. Colon and rectal cancer, although closely related histologically, are considered, and often treated, very differently, depending on stage, based solely on location.
Gastric cancer is a prevalent yet heterogeneous disease. From diet and lifestyle to genetics and ethnicity, our appreciation of the complexity of gastric cancer has evolved. This review will discuss the epidemiology of gastric cancer focusing on trends across various risk categories. We realize that gastric cancer is not merely a single disease, but rather individual diseases within a single organ-a distinction that will aid our understanding of disease heterogeneity and its significance.
d_abstr_R Gastric cancer is a common malignancy with a poor prognosis, and surgical treatment remains the first-line approach to treatment to provide a cure. Despite advances in surgical techniques, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and neoadjuvant therapy, gastric cancer remains the second leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Although the 5-year survival rate of early gastric cancer can reach >90%, due to the low early diagnosis rate, most patients present with advanced-stage gastric cancer. Therefore, there has been increasing interest in improving surgical treatment of advanced gastric cancer. Lymph node dissection is an important part of the surgical treatment of advanced gastric cancer due to the high incidence of lymph node metastasis. Although prospective studies have confirmed the safety and feasibility of laparoscopic surgery for early gastric cancer, the relevant treatment models of advanced gastric cancer still need to be further explored and validated. This review aims to provide an update on the recent advances in the surgical treatment of advanced gastric cancer.
The past decade has seen many advances in knowledge about gastric cancer. Notably, tumour biology and lymphatic spread are now better understood, and treatment by surgical and medical oncologists has become more standardised. Since refrigerators have replaced other methods of food conservation, Helicobacter pylori has become a factor in the cause of gastric cancer. Cancers that arise at the oesophagogastric junction might be further examples of wealth-associated disease. To tailor treatment better, the western hemisphere needs to borrow from the East by establishing screening programmes for early diagnosis, through careful surgical resection, and through detailed analysis of tumour spread. In Europe and the USA, most patients reach treatment with cancers already at an advanced stage. For these patients, three important randomised trials are underway that evaluate combined therapy. Cytostatic drugs, especially angiogenesis inhibitors have proved disappointing; however, basic research efforts to detect familial gastric cancers and to assess minimally residual disease look more hopeful.
Gastric cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality across the world, with poor prognosis and a median overall survival of ≤12 months for advanced stage gastric cancer. Environmental, genetic and other predisposing factors contribute to the development of gastric cancer and a predominant factor was found to be infection of Helicobacter pylori Advances in understanding the deranged signalling pathways that are critical for normal cellular homeostasis helped in the development of novel drugs that target specific proteins and pathways to curtail the growth of gastric cancer. Genetic studies revealed several single nucleotide polymorphisms, chromosomal aberrations and epigenetic alterations that likely play a major role in elevating the susceptibility to develop gastric cancer. Methylation pattern of specific genes may likely prove to be a valid biomarker for early detection of gastric cancer, but much progress is needed to establish specific markers. Important developments have been made in targeting human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for treating advanced gastro-oesophageal junction cancer, using specific monoclonal antibodies. Lack of efficacy with regard to targeting other signalling pathways including mesenchymal-epithelial transition/hepatocyte growth factor and mammalian target of rapamycin is probably due to suboptimal patient selection for these clinical trials, which is probably due to the lack of appropriate biomarkers, to decide on responsive patient population. Besides the development of antagonists for the cell growth-related signalling pathways, advances are also being made to tackle gastric cancer by immunotherapies, targeting immune check-points, which may hold promise for better treatment options in future.